# VMC_LMC_hierarchical_star_formation
This repository has a catalogue containing parameters of young stellar structures from MNRAS paper The VMC survey - XLVII. Turbulence-Controlled Hierarchical Star Formation in the Large Magellanic Cloud.

================================================================================


Abstract:
    We perform a statistical clustering analysis of upper main-sequence stars in the Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC) using data from the Visible and Infrared Survey Telescope
for Astronomy survey of the Magellanic Clouds. We map over 2500 young stellar
structures at 15 significance levels across ∼120 square degrees centred on the LMC.
The structures have sizes ranging from a few parsecs to over 1 kpc. We find that the
young structures follow power-law size and mass distributions. From the perimeter–
area relation, we derive a perimeter–area dimension of 1.44±0.20. From the mass–size
relation and the size distribution, we derive two-dimensional fractal dimensions of
1.50±0.10 and 1.61±0.20, respectively. We find that the surface density distribution is
well-represented by a lognormal distribution. We apply the Larson relation to estimate
the velocity dispersions and crossing times of these structures. Our results indicate
that the fractal nature of the young stellar structures has been inherited from the gas
clouds from which they form and that this architecture is generated by supersonic
turbulence. Our results also suggest that star formation in the LMC is scale-free from
10 pc to 700 pc.

    
File Summary:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'MNRAS_catalogue.fits' contains 2846 records of parameters for the detected young stellar structures. Below are listed the column units, names, and explanation.

|Units         |Label       |Explanations                                |
|--------------|------------|--------------------------------------------|
|--            |ID          |ID number                                   |
|\sigma        |level       |significance level                          |      
|deg           |ra          |Right ascension (J2000)                     |  
|deg           |dec         |Declination (J2000)                         | 
|pc            |radius      |radius of circle w/ same area as structure  |  
|--            |nstar       |number of stars                             |  
|pc^{-2}       |surface     |surface density                             | 
|km s^{-1}     |v_dis       |velocity dispersion from the Larson relation|
|Myr           |t_cr        |crossing time                               |   



